# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


You have implemented some complex features, namely the map and Spotify integration. These are your core features which shows that your are focus on your core features, however please do not spend too much effort on the styling of your app until your core features are mature.
Your app contains a lot of hard-coded values, which is fine for a demo, but you should quickly replace them.
Note that when connecting to the app with the Spotify account linked and the Spotify application opened and playing on another device, the output device on which the music is played changes.


For this part, you received 6.3 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


The Figma is very complete and very detailed, well done.
The architecture diagram provide a clear overview of the app structure.


For this part, you received 5.4 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


The quality of the code is overall good, with a good use of the MVVM pattern and code injection.
You are lacking documentation on interfaces and models (data classes), documentation is especially important for these components as there is no code accompanying them that you could look at.
The model/spotify/objects folder name is too generic, you should avoid such "fourre-tout" names.
You have some icons defined in code (in ui/navigation/Icons.kt), these should be in the res folder (in .xml files for example).

Your code coverage is very high (94.7% bravo !). However it seems that you don't have any end-to-end tests, even worse, that you had one and removed it. Please rectify this immediately.

Your app works smoothly, we didn't find any usability issue, the UI is consistent and match the Figma. However, given that you did not build the APK in time, we applied a penality of 5% to the overall grade.


For this part, you received 11 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


Your sprint backlog was well prepared for Sprint 6, with time estimates and epic, however you should make sure that all issues are assigned to someone.
Your product backlog has been refined since M1 and is up to date.


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


Your SCRUM documents are always produced on time and used pretty effectively, although the stand up mintues tends to be minimalist.
The meetings are globally well structured, but some of you should try to stay more focused, also you should prepare more your demo.
You showed autonomy in your decisions regarding the evolution of the app and how you work on it.


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


Whlie you were able to deliver value over the duration of the milestone, you tend to have all the team stuck when facing issues (for example with Spotify).
You should be more flexible in your planning to make sure to make progress even when facing issues.


For this part, you received 1.2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 4.89. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
